Usage
-------

The purpose of this package is to evaluate source separation results and
write out standardized ``json`` files that can easiliy be parsed by the
SiSEC submission system. Furthermore we want to encourage users to use
this evaluation output format as the standardized way to share source
separation results for processed tracks. We provide two different ways
to use ``museval`` in conjunction with your source separation results.

Run and Evaluate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  If you want to perform evaluation while processing your source
   separation results, you can hook ``museval`` into your ``musdb``
   user_function:

Here is an example for such a function separating the mixture into a
**vocals** and **accompaniment** track:

.. code:: python

    import musdb
    import museval

    output_dir = ...
    estimates_dir = ...

    for track in musdb:
        # generate your estimates
        # ...

        estimates = {
            'vocals': track.audio,
            'accompaniment': track.audio
        }

        # Evaluate using museval
        scores = museval.eval_mus_track(
            track, estimates, output_dir=output_dir
        )

        # print nicely formatted mean scores
        print(scores)


-  Make sure ``output_dir`` is set. ``museval`` will recreate the
   ``musdb`` file structure in that folder and write the evaluation
   results to this folder.

Evaluate later
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have already computed your estimates (maybe through the use of
MATLAB), we provide you with an easy-to-use function to process
evaluation results afterwards.

Simply use the ``museval.eval_mus_dir`` to evaluate your
``estimates_dir`` and write the results into the ``output_dir``. 

.. code:: python

    import musdb
    import museval

    # initiate musdb
    mus = musdb.DB()

    # evaluate an existing estimate folder with wav files
    museval.eval_mus_dir(
        dataset=mus,  # instance of musdb
        estimates_dir=...,  # path to estimate folder
        output_dir=...,  # set a folder to write eval json files
        subsets="Test",
    )

Commandline tool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We provide a commandline wrapper of ``eval_mus_dir`` by calling the
``museval`` commandline tool. The following example is equivalent to the
code example above:

::

    museval -p --mus path/to/musdb -o path/to/output_dir path/to/estimate_dir

Using Docker for Evaluation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you don’t want to set up a Python environment to run the evaluation,
we would recommend to use `Docker <http://docker.com>`__.

1. Pull Docker Container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pull our precompiled ``sigsep-mus-eval`` image from dockerhub:

::

    docker pull faroit/sigsep-mus-eval

2. Run evaluation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lets assume you have stored the estimates directory in
``path/to/estimate_dir``, the MUSDB18 is stored in ``path/to/musdb``,
and you want to write the output.json files to ``path/to/output_dir``.
You then just mount these directories into the docker container using
the ``-v`` flags and run the container:

::

    docker run --rm -v path/to/estimate_dir:/est -v path/to/musdb:/mus -v path/to/output_dir:/out faroit/sigsep-mus-eval --mus /mus -o /out /est

Please note hat docker requires absolute paths so you have to rely on
your command line environment to convert relative paths to absolute
paths (e.g. by using ``$HOME/`` on Unix).

:warning: ``museval`` requires a significant amount of memory for the
evaluation. Evaluating all five targets for musdb18 may require more
than 4GB of RAM. If you use multiprocessing by using the ``-p`` switch
in ``museval``, this results in 16GB of RAM. It is recommended to adjust
your Docker preferences, because the docker container might just quit if
its out of memory.
